THE LONBOX HEALTH LAWS. 



1. Private Individuals. — There are various methods 
by which individuals may qualify themselves for iusistiug 
on the enforcement of the law. The first stej^, no doubt, 
is to ascertain what things that are prejudicial to the 
piiblic health can be coped with by the law, which it will 
be the object of this manual to explain. The next step, 
on being satisfied that Ihe law is being contravened, is to 
complain either to the sanitary authority or to the County 
Couucil, or directly to the magistrates. Important ex- 
amples of the statutory rights of individual interference 
will be found in the Public Health Act for London, re- 
ferred to on p, 19, and in the Elementary Education Acts 
{see pp. 6, 32). The power of setting the law in motion is no 
longer limited to an inhabitant of the parish or place in 
which the subject of complaint exists ^ ; nor to a person 
aggrieved thereby. 

It must not be supposed that the cases given exhaust the 
occasions "wdiere individual interference can produce gocd 
results. They are referred to simply becau se they illii si rate 
the opportunities which the law creates ; but there are 
endless metlicds by which individuals can create oppor- 
tunitits of useful action for themselves. These will, fcr 
the most part, lie in the direction of looking out for, and 
calling attention to, the non-perfoimance or ineffective 
Ijerformance of the duties imposed by laAV on the ])fx\(\. 
officers of local sanitary authorities. 

For instauce, the duties of Inspectors of Nuisances, 
referred to at p. 22, can be rendered much easier, the 
officers themselves can be encouraged, or, if need be, 
stimulated by the action of friendly but persistent ob- 
servers. It is necessary to study the extensive po'wers 
conferred upon the vestries in order to put effectual 
pressure upon those bodies ; and. it should not be 
forgotten that those SAveeping powers are entrusted 
to them as the servants of the community by whom 
they are elected, and that it is the right and the 
duty of individual members of that community to 
see that their servants give a good account of their 
stewardship. ' 

1 Puljlic Health Act, 1891, sections 3 and 12 (1). Education Act, 
1870, section 7. 



THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE LAJV, 



2. Charitable Bodies. — To attempt to define ex- 
haustively tlie boimcls within which voluntary charitable 
associations can usefully avail themselves of the oppor- 
tunities conferred by the law would be impossible 
within the limits of this manual. In the main, the 
work of such societies in the direction named must be 
an extension of that already alluded to as falling within 
the scope of individual effort. There are many occasions 
upon which a society can take advantage of its impersonal 
character, of the influence of its members, or the extent 
of its organisation to interfere where individuals would 
liave small hope of success. Such a society, for instance, 
is the Mansion House Council on the Dwellings of the 
Poor. 

Those who liave to move daily about the poorer parts of 
London, whether as district visitors, or in connection with 
particular charities, or with the organisation of charity, 
have special opportunities of observing the sanitary defects 
of the districts which they visit, and of ameliorating their 
condition, both by complaint in the proper quarters and 
by inculcation of the sanitary rules and methods, observ- 
ance of which is necessary to supplement what is done by 
tlie owners of the houses visited, or by the local sanitary 
authority. 

3. Companies. — The action of companies formed for 
the purpose of building upon land acquired by Act of 
Parliament, or purchased subject to statutory provisions 
as to its treatment and control, is very important, and 
must be taken into account among the agencies directly 
affecting the housing of the metropolitan population. The 
character and objects of these companies vary greatl3\ 
Sometimes, as in the case of the railway companies, the 
erection and regulation of dwellings is only a subsidiary 
process unconnected with the general undertaking. In 
others — as, for instance, in the case of the Peabody Trustees 
and the Gruinness Trust — the commercial side of the 
undertaking is lost sight of, and the persons directing the 
expenditure are practically the administrators of a i^ublic 
trust. Intermediate between these two extremes there 
are various forms in which the money of individuals or 
companies is invested in the building of dwellings for the 



6 



THE LONDON HEALTH LAfVS. 



poorer classes {see p. 91). For the most part, tlie in- 
fluence of individuals npon large building- schemes is 
confined to those who occupy the position of managers, 
directors, or promoters. 

Some of the chief points with regard to which the law 
regulates such enterprises, and provides for the due ob- 
servance of the conditions necessary for tlie preservation 
of health, will be found under the head of Building 
Regulations at p. 54, 

The action of sucli companies, to be beneficial to public 
health, must go beyond merely observing the minimum 
required by the building regulations which any w^ell- 
regulated district surveyor wall give them no chance of 
evading. It is desirable that both in planning and con- 
struction, and, above all, in drainage aud the admission of 
light and air, such buildings should be such as to improve 
upon the existing regulations ; and further that such rules 
for management should be devised and wisely enforced as 
w^ill, without semblance of tyranny or inquisition, civilise 
the less educated inhabitants up to the level of modern 
sanitary requirements. 

4. The School Board. — The action of the London 
School Board, though not directly affecting the dwellings 
of the poor, is nevertheless so important in its bearings 
upon the welfare of their inmates that it is impossible 
wholly to pass it over. 

Not only are the statutory powers of the Board exceed- 
ingly strong, but they are capable of being put into force 
by any person wdio lakes an interest in their application. 
On p. 32 a paragraph has been devoted to the extent of 
the compulsory powders of the Board, and it wnll be seen 
from the illustrations there given that there is a most 
intimate connection between the due exercise of the 
authority possessed by its officers and some of the most 
pressing evils which have attracted attention of late in 
the direction of overcrow^ding. 

5. Guardians of the Poor. — Guardians of the Poor 
in London have for many years had the power of proceed- 
ing to get cleansing orders, ^ where they are necessary, 
and this power is unaifected by the Public Health Act 

1 Statutes of 1839, c. 71, section 41. 



THE ABMINISTBATION 'OF THE LAW. 7 



of 1891. Moreover, that Act, in accordance with a sugges- 
tion emanating- from tlie Mansion House Council, has 
also empowered guardians to make regulations directing 
relieving officers to inform the sanitary authority at once 
of any nuisance which can be summarily dealt with under 
the Public Health Act. ^ The guardians should, in every 
district, be pressed to make and enforce such regulations, 
and not to confine their efforts to cases of actual disease ; 
for relieving officers have even better chances than sanitary 
inspectors of ascertaining how far ill-health is caused by 
insanitary conditions. 

The Metropolitan Asylums Board, as the chief London 
hospital authority for dealing with infectious diseases, 
have exceptional opportunities of warning sanitary author- 
ities of the existence of diseases due to insanitary con- 
ditions.^ 

6. Churchwardens and Overseers. — Under the 
Metropolitan Police Courts Act, 1839, section 41, church- 
wardens and overseers have the same powers with respect 
to obtaining cleansing orders as the guardians. But since 
the passing of the Metropolis Management Act, 1855, the 
enactment is used by the churchwardens and overseers, if 
at all, as representing the sanitary authority and not the 
guardians. 

7. The Metropolitan Police.— The Metropolitan 
Police are not in any way under the control of any local 
sanitary authority in London nor of the County Council ; 
and, speaking generally, their duties, under the Police Acts, 
do not extend to the abatement of nuisances, unless they 
occur in the streets. As to most other nuisances, unless 
the police receive special directions from the Commissioners, 
they are simply in the position of private individuals- 
They have, however, special powers as to common lodging- 
houses, as to which see p. 31. 

8. Local Authorities. — A list of the various local 
authorities for the Metropolis will be found at p. Ill, 
with the address of the central offic/e in each case. In 

^ Statutes of 1891, c. 76, section 3. 

2 1891, c. 76, sections 55, 67, 79, 80, 81, 85, 86, 87, 104. 



8 



THE LONDON HEALTH LATFS. 



view of the important powers exercised by these bodies, 
and of the advantage which may accrue from their 
members being recruited from a larger fiekl than liitherto, 
a short note explaining the qnalifications and method of 
election of vestrymen is there added. 

The duties and powers of the local authority are very 
extensive, and will frequently b3 referred to in these 
pages. There can be no doubt that many of the most 
important duties imposed upon the vestries have not 
hitherto been adequately performed, and this is particu- 
larly the case with regard to what may be called their 
regulating powers. Too ofteu tliey act as if what is im- 
posed on them as an absolute duty was left to their 
unfettered and not too active discretion. Examples of the 
many occasions on which the local authority is charged 
with the duty of supervision and interference will be 
found hereafter under the heading of the Public Health 
Act {see chap, ii., p. 18). 

It will be noticed that, for the most part, the law enjoin- 
ing interference is peremptory, and that in the inspectors 
of nuisances, whom tlie local authorities are entitled to 
appoint in any numbers they think fit, officers are provided 
whose declared duty it is to bring to the notice of their 
employers the departures from the law with which tliose 
employers are empowered to deal. 

It is not necessary to inquire iuto the question as to 
why this duty is in many cases not performed or inade- 
quately performed ; but the slightest acquaintance with the 
actual condition of many crowded localities is sufficient 
to prove the fact that there is frequently either negligence 
or inability to give full effect to the law. 

It is possible to stimulate the activity of the local 
authorities in various ways. In many cases friendly 
representations made to the officials may suffice. In other 
eases it will be well to take t])e initiative conferred by the 
law, and for individuals to prefer complaints in person io 
the vestry acting as a regularly constituted authority 
bound to take action upon due representations being 
niade.^ Perhaps the most effective method of all by 
which individuals interested in the due enforcement of 

1 See cases under the Public Health Act, 1891, p. 26. 



THE AHMIXISTRATIOX OF THE LAW. 9 



the law can secure adequate action on the xjart of tlie 
authorities is by such persons themselves seeking election 
as vestrymen or members of district boards. Hitherto the 
election of vestrj^men has either excited little public 
interest, or been made to turn on current politics, and 
the persons elected, not being subject to any A^ery severe 
criticism, or strengthened by the power of public opinion, 
have in many cases failed to exhibit the euergy, iuterest, 
and knowledge which the serious nature of the work 
entrusted to them imperatively demands. In a word, 
tlierefore, if you wish to see the vestry do its work, 
become a vestryman, and influence its action. (As to the 
election of vestrymen, see p. 119.) 

9. The London County Council. — The London 
County Council, subject to the Local G-overnment Board, 
is the supreme authority for London in matters of sani- 
tation. It was created by the Local Government Act 
of 1888,^ which abolished the Metropolitan Board of 
Works ; and by virtue of subsequent enactments is now 
in effect the governing body of London (without the City) 
for sanitary purposes. 

It consists of 137 members, 19 of whom are aldermen, 
selected by the elected members of the Council either 
from among their own number or from without. The 
franchise ^ is that of the Municipal Corporations Act, 
1882,3 su])plemented by the £10 occupation qualification.* 
It practically coincides with the occupation qualifications 
for the Parliamentary franchise, except that properly 
qualified ivomen and peers may vote in County Council 
elections. 